Origin/chapters1and2 (#65)
SanliFaez/OS4Physicists: CourseDevelopment/Week1/Chapter1.MD

# Open Science for Physicists, Lecture 1

+ Last updated Date: 05/06/2022
+ Lecturer: @SanliFaez 

#### Contributors: 
+ Erik van Sebille @erikvansebille
+ Hendrik Snijder @hendelhendel

> ![Frontpage](./Week1/Chapter1.png?raw=true)

Reviewer: Figure does not work at https://github.com/SanliFaez/OS4Physicists/blob/origin/chapters1and2/CourseDevelopment/Week1/Chapter1.MD

## Goal: Why open science, how did we get here? 
In this lecture, student are introduced to various definitions of open science and how people and organizations are getting there from the current state of science. 
In a discussion a student can distinguish between different schools of open science and can take a point of view on their suitability and to name consequences of open science for their careers, and for science in general. 
Besides that, the international context and access to scientific knowledge will be discussed, as well as the oposition to the new research policies. 
Students are asked to reflect on the barriers they see in realization of open science ideals

## Lecture: Week 1 
**Topics covered in lecture**
- Five schools of Open Science 

> - Current state of the conversation (NL, UU, Physics) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Current state of the discussion and implementation of Open Science (at NL, UU, and Physics level) 
```

- Access and academic emancipation
- Community-Discipline-Employer
- Laboratory life 
- International context, [UNESCO Recommendation on Open Science](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I3Wkvx_ZaFo)

> - Trans Disciplinary and interdisciplinary science

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Transdisciplinary and interdisciplinary science
```
